agre kurūṇām atha pāṇḍavānāṁ
duḥśāsanenāhṛta-vastra-keśā
kṛṣṇā tadākrośad ananya-nāthā
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

Before the assembled Kurus and pandavas, when Duḥśāsana caught her hair and
clothing, Kṛṣṇā (Draupadī), having no other Lord, cried out, ” Govinda,
Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

śrī kṛṣṇa viṣṇo madhu-kaiṭabhāre
bhaktānukampin bhagavan murāre
trāyasva māṁ keśava lokanātha
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

O Lord Kṛṣṇa, Viṣṇu, enemy of the Madhu and Kaiṭabha demons; O Supreme
Personality of Godhead, enemy of Mura, merciful upon the devotees; O Keśava,
Lord of the worlds, Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava, please deliver me.

vikretukāmā kila gopa-kanyā
murāri-pādārpita-citta-vṛttiḥ
dadhyādikaṁ mohavaśād avocad
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

Though desiring to sell milk, dahī, butter, etc., the mind of a young gopī
was so absorbed in the lotus feet of Kṛṣṇa that instead of calling out “Milk
for sale,” she bewilderedly said, “Govinda!”, Dāmodara!”, and “Mādhava!”

ulūkhale sambhṛta-tanḍulāṅś ca
saṅghaṭṭayantyo musalaiḥ pramugdhāḥ
gāyanti gopyo janitānurāgā
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

Their grinding-mortars full of grains, the gopīs minds are overcome as they
thresh with their pestles, singing “Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

kācit karāmbhoj a-puṭe niṣaṇṇaṁ
krīḍā-śukaṁ kiṁśuka-rakta-tuṇḍam
adhyāpayām āsa saroruhākṣī
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

A lotus-eyed girl instructed the red-beaked pet parrot that was seated in
the cup of her lotus hand; she said, “Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava . . .”

gṛhe gṛhe gopa-vadhū-samūhaḥ
prati-kṣaṇaṁ piñjara-sārikānām
skhalad-giraṁ vācayituṁ pravṛtto
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

In each and every house, a bevy of gopa-women is engaged in making the caged
parrots constantly utter with broken words, “Govinda,” “Dāmodara,” and
Mādhava.”

paryyaṇkikābhājam alam kumāraṁ
prasvāpayantyo ‘khila-gopa-kanyāḥ
jaguḥ prabandhaṁ svara-tāla-bandhaṁ
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

With the little boy lying in the swing, all of the gopīs used to expertly
sing compositions set to musical notes and rhythm; they went, “Govinda,
Dāmodara, Mādhava,” while putting Him to rest.

rāmānujaṁ vīkṣaṇa-keli-lolaṁ
gopi gṛhītvā nava-nīta-golam
ābālakaṁ bālakam ājuhāva
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

The younger brother of Balarāma, playing mischieviously, was dodging about
her with restless eyes. Taking a ball of fresh butter to lure Him over, a
gopī called Him: “O Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava . . .”

vicitra-varṇābharaṇābhirāme-
-bhidhehi vaktrāmbuja-rājaḥaṁse
sadā madīye rasane ‘gra-raṇge
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

O my tongue, since my mouth has become like a lotus by dint of the presence
there of these eloquent, ornamental, delightful syllables, you are like the
swan that plays there. As your foremost pleasure, always articulate the
names, “Govinda,” “Dāmodara,” and “Mādhava.”

aṅkādhirūḍhaṁ śiśu-gopa-gūḍhaṁ
stanaṁ dhayantaṁ kamalaika-kāntam
sambodhayām āsa mudā yaśodā
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

The one and only Lord of Lakṣmīdevī, as an inconspicuous little cowherd
baby, was seated in the lap of mother Yaśodā, drinking her breast-milk.
Merged in bliss, she addressed Him as “Govinda,” “Dāmodara,” and “Mādhava.”

krīḍantam antar-vrajam ātmanaṁ svaṁ
samaṁ vayasyaiḥ paśu-pāla-bālaiḥ
premṇā yaśodā prajuhāva kṛṣṇaṁ
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

In Vraja-dhāma, Kṛṣṇa was playing with His playmates, the boys of His age
who protected the animals. With great love, mother Yaśodā called out to her
own son, “O Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

yaśodayā gāḍham ulūkhalena
go-kaṇṭha-pāśena nibadhyamanam
ruroda mandaṁ navanīta-bhojī
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

Being firmly tied up to the grinding mortar with a cow’s rope by mother
Yaśodā, the plunderer of butter softly whimpered. “Govinda, Dāmodara,
Mādhava.”

nijāṅgaṇe kaṅkaṇa-keli-lolaṁ
gopī gṛhītvā navanīta-golam
āmardayat pāṇi-talena netre
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

In His own courtyard, Kṛsṇa was carelessly playing with a bracelet. So the
gopī took a ball of butter to Him, and shutting His eyes with her palm, she
distracted Him, “O Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava . . .(Guess what I have for
you!)”

gṛhe gṛhe gopa-vadhū-kadambāḥ
sarve militvā samavāya-yoge
puṇyāni nāmāni paṭhanti nityaṁ
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

In house after house, groups of cowherd ladies gather on various occasions,
and together they always chant the transcendental names of Kṛṣṇa–”Govinda,
Dāmodara, and Mādhava.”

mandāra-mūle vadanābhirāmaṁ
bimbādhare pūrita-veṇu-nādam
go-gopa-gopī-jana-madhya-saṁsthaṁ
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

His face is pleasing, and the flute at His lips is filled with Divine sound.
Amidst the cows, gopas, and gopīs, He stands at the base of a coral tree.
Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!

utthāya gopyo ‘para-rātra-bhoge
smṛtvā yaśodā-suta-bāla-kelim
gāyanti proccair dadhi-manthayantyo
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

Having risen early in the Brahma-muhūrta, and remembering the childish
activities of the Son of mother Yaśodā, the gopīs loudly sing while churning
butter–”Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

jagdho ‘tha datto navanīta-piṇḍo
gṛhe yaśodā vicikitsayantī
uvāca satyaṁ vada he murāre
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

Having churned and then set aside a fresh lump of butter in the house,
mother Yaśodā was now suspicious–it had been eaten. She said, “Hey–Murāri!
Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava, now tell me the truth . . .”


abhyarcya gehaṁ yuvatiḥ pravṛddha-
-prema-pravāhā dadhi nirmamantha
gāyanti gopyo ‘tha sakhī-sametā
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

Having finished worship at home, a young gopī, (like) a strong current of
love for Kṛṣṇa, churned the butter, and then joins together with all the
gopīs and their friends and they sing, “Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

kvacit prabhāte dadhi-pūrṇa-pātre
nikṣipya manthaṁ yuvatī mukundam
ālokya gānaṁ vividhaṁ karoti
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

One time, early in the morning, just as a girl had put aside her churn in a
pot full of butter–she saw Mukunda. She then began to sing songs in various
ways, about Govinda, Dāmodara, and Mādhava.

krīḍāparaṁ bhojana-majjanārthaṁ
hitaiṣiṇī strī tanujaṁ yaśodā
ājūhavat prema-pari-plutākṣī
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

(Without having even bathed or eaten,) Kṛṣṇa was absorbed in play.
Overwhelmed with affection, mother Yaśodā, who thought only of her son’s
welfare, called out, “Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava! (Come, take your bath and
eat something.)”

sukhaṁ śayānaṁ nilaye ca viṣṇuṁ
devarṣi-mukhyā munayaḥ prapannāḥ
tenācyute tanmayatāṁ vrajanti
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

Devaṛṣi Nārada and other Munis are always surrendered to Lord Viṣṇu, who
rests upon His couch. They always chant the names of “Govinda,” “Dāmodara,”
and “Mādhava,” and thus they attain spiritual forms similar to His.

vihāya nidrām aruṇodaye ca
vidhāya kṛtyāni ca vipramukhyāḥ
vedāvasāne prapaṭhanti nityaṁ
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

After giving up sleep at dawn, having completed their ritualistic duties,
and at the end of their Vedic chanting, the best of the learned brāhmaṇas
always loudly chant, “Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

vṛndāvane gopa-gaṇāś ca gopyo
vilokya govinda-viyoga-khinnam
rādhāṁ jaguḥ sāśru-vilocanābhyāṁ
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

In Vṛndāvana, seeing Śrīmatī Rādhārāṇī overwhelmed with separation from
Govinda, groups of gopas and gopīs sang, with tears in their lotus eyes,
“Govinda! Dāmodara! O Mādhava!”

prabhāta-sañcāra-gatā nu gāvas
tad-rakṣaṇārthaṁ tanayaṁ yaśodā
prābodhayat pāṇi-talena mandaṁ
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

The cows having already gone out to graze early in the morning, mother
Yaśodā gently roused her sleeping son with the palm of her hand, softly
saying, “Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava.”

pravāla-śobhā iva dīrgha-keśā
vātāmbu-parṇāśana-pūta-dehāḥ
mūle tarūṇāṁ munayaḥ paṭhanti
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

With long, matted hair the color of coral, and bodies purified by eating
only leaves, water, and air, the sages sit beneath the trees and chant,
“Govinda,” “Dāmodara,” and “Mādhava.”

evaṁ bruvāṇā virahāturā bhṛśāṁ
vraja-striyaḥ kṛṣṇa-viṣikta-mānasāḥ
visṛjya lajjāṁ ruruduḥ sma su-svaraṁ
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

“After speaking these words, the ladies of Vraja, who were so attached to
Kṛṣṇa, felt extremely agitated by their imminent separation from Him. They
forgot all worldly shame and loudly cried out,’O Govinda! O Dāmodara! O
Mādhava!’”

gopī kadācin maṇi-piñjara-sthaṁ
śukaṁ vaco vācayituṁ pravṛttā
ānanda-kanda vraja-candra kṛṣṇa
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

Sometimes a gopī is engaged in teaching a parrot within a jewelled cage to
recite names like: “Ānanda-kanda” (source of bliss), “Vraja-candra” (moon of
Vraja), “Kṛṣṇa,” “Govinda,” “Dāmodara,” and “Mādhava.”

go-vatsa-bālaiḥ śiśu-kāka-pakṣaṁ
badhnantam ambhoja-dalāyatākṣam
uvāca mātā cibukaṁ gṛhītvā
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

The lotus-eyed Lord was tying the śikhā of a cowherd boy to the tail of a
calf when His mother caught Him, lifted up His chin, and said, “Govinda!
Dāmodara! Mādhava!”

prabhāta-kāle vara-vallavaughā
go-rakṣaṇārthaṁ dhṛta-vetra-daṇḍāḥ
ākārayām āsur anantam ādyam
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

In the early morning a group of His favorite cowherd boys arrived,
stick-canes in hand, to take care of the cows. They addressed the unlimited,
primeval Personality of Godhead, “Hey, Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

jalāśaye kāliya-mardanāya
yadā kadambād apatan murāre
gopāṅganāś cakruśur etya gopā
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

When Lord Murāri jumped from the Kadamba branch into the water to chastise
the Kāliya serpent, all the gopīs and cowherd boys went there and cried out,
“Oh! Govinda! Dāmodara! Mādhava!”

akrūram āsādya yadā mukundaś
cāpotsavārthaṁ mathurāṁ praviṣṭaḥ
tadā sa paurair jayatīty abhāṣi
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

After Lord Mukunda had met with Akrūra and entered Mathurā to attend the
ceremony of breaking the bow of Kaṁsa, all the citizens then shouted, “Jaya
Govinda! Jaya Dāmodara! Jaya Mādhava!”

kaṁsasya dūtena yadaiva nītau
vṛndāvanāntād vasudeva-sūnau
ruroda gopī bhavanasya madhye
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

When both sons of Vasudeva had actually been taken out of Vṛndāvana by the
messenger of Kaṁsa, Yaśodā sobbed within the house, wailing, “Govinda,
Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

sarovare kāliya-nāga-baddhaṁ
śiśuṁ yaśodā-tanayaṁ niśamya
cakrur luṭantyaḥ pathi gopa-bālā
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

Hearing how the son of Yaśodā, who was but a child, was wrapped within the
coils of the Kāliya serpent at the pond, the cowherd boys cried “Govinda!
Dāmodara! Mādhava!” and scurried down the path.

akrūra-yāne yadu-vaṁśa-nāthaṁ
saṁgacchamānaṁ mathurāṁ nirīkṣya
ūcur viyogāt kila gopa-bālā
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

Seeing the Lord of the Yadus proceeding towards Mathurā upon Akrūra’s
chariot, the cowherd boys, upon realization of their impending separation,
said, “O Govinda! Dāmodara, Mādhava! (Where are you going? Are You actually
leaving us now?)

cakranda gopī nalinī-vanānte
kṛṣṇena hīnā kusume śayānā
praphulla-nīlotpala-locanābhyāṁ
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

At the edge of a lotus forest, a gopī lay down upon the bed of flowers,
bereft of Kṛṣṇa. Tears flowed from her lotus eyes (as she wept,) “Govinda,
Dāmodara, Mādhava.”

mātā-pitṛbhyāṁ parivāryamāṇā
gehaṁ praviṣṭā vilalāpa gopī
āgatya māṁ pālaya viśvanātha
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

Being very restricted by her mother and father, the lamenting gopī entered
the house, thinking, “(Now that) I have arrived home, save me, O Lord of the
universe! O Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

vṛndāvana-sthaṁ harim āśu buddhvā
gopī gatā kāpi vanaṁ niśāyām
tatrāpy adṛṣṭvāti-bhayād avocad
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

Thinking that Kṛṣṇa was in the forest, a gopī fled into the forest in the
middle of night. But seeing that Kṛṣṇa wasn’t actually there, she became
very fearful, and cried, “Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

sukhaṁ śayānā nilaye nije ‘pi
nāmāni viṣṇoḥ pravadanti martyāḥ
te niścitaṁ tanmayatāṁ vrajanti
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

Even the ordinary mortals comfortably seated at home who chant the names of
Viṣṇu, “Govinda, Dāmodara,” and “Mādhava,” certainly attain (at least) the
liberation of having a form similar to that of the Lord.

sā nīrajākṣīm avalokya rādhāṁ
ruroda govinda-viyoga-khinnām
sakhī praphullotpala-locanābhyāṁ
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

Seeing Śrīmatī Rādhārāṇi crying from the pangs of separation from Govinda,
the blooming lotus eyes of Rādhā’s girlfriend also filled with tears, and
she too cried, “Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava.”

jihve rasajñe madhura-priyā tvaṁ
satyaṁ hitaṁ tvāṁ paramaṁ vadāmi
āvarṇayethā madhurākṣarāṇi
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

O my tongue, you are fond of sweet things and are of discriminating taste; I
tell you the highest truth, which is also the most beneficial. Please just
recite these sweet syllables: “Govinda,” “Dāmodara,” and “Mādhava.”

ātyantika-vyādhiharaṁ janānāṁ
cikitsakaṁ veda-vido vadanti
saṁsāra-tāpa-traya-nāśa-bījaṁ
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

The knowers of the Vedas say that this is the cure-all of the worst diseases
of mankind, and that this is the seed of the destruction of the threefold
miseries of material existence–”Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

tātājñayā gacchati rāmcandre
salakṣmaṇe ‘raṇyacaye sasīte
cakranda rāmasya nijā janitrī
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

Upon Rāmacandra’s going into the forest due to his father’s order, along
with Lakṣmaṇa and Sītā, (and thus becoming) a forest-rover, His mother
cried, “O Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

ekākinī daṇḍaka-kānanāntāt
sā nīyamānā daśakandhareṇa
sītā tadākrośad ananya-nāthā
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

Left there alone, Sītā was carried out of the forest by the ten-headed
Rāvaṇa. At that time, accepting no other Lord, Sītā cried, “O Govinda!
Dāmodara! Mādhava!”

rāmādviyuktā janakātmajā sā
vicintayantī hrdi rāma-rūpam
ruroda sītā raghunatha pāhi
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

Separated from Rāma, the daughter of King Janaka was completely anxious, and
with the form of Rāma within her heart, she cried, “O Raghunātha! Protect
me! O Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

prasīda viṣṇo raghu-vaṁśa-nātha
surāsurāṇāṁ sukha-duḥkha-heto
ruroda sītā tu samudra-madhye
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

“O Lord Viṣṇu, be gracious! Lord of the Raghu clan, cause of the happiness
and distress of gods and demons alike, O Govinda, Dāmoadara, Mādhava!” Thus
Sītā cried, (by the time she had been carried) over the middle of the ocean.

antar-jale grāha-gṛhīta-pādo
visṛṣtā-vikliṣṭa-samasta-bandhuḥ
tadā gajendro nitarāṁ jagāda
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

Caught by his foot and pulled into the water, Gajendra, his friends all
harassed and frightened away, then called out incessantly, “Govinda,
Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

haṁsadhvajaḥ śaṅkhayuto dadarśa
putraṁ kaṭāhe prapatantam enam
puṇyāni nāmāni harer japantaṁ
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

Along with his priest Śaṅkhayuta, King Haṁsadhvaja saw his son Sudhanvā
falling into a vat, but the boy was chanting the transcendental names of
Hari, Govinda, Dāmodara, and Mādhava.

durvāsaso vākyam upetya kṛṣṇā
sā cābravīt kānana-vāsinīśam
antaḥpraviṣṭaṁ manasājuhāva
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

Accepting Durvāsa Muni’s request (that she feed his thousands of disciples,
even though she hadn’t the means to do this) Draupadī mentally called out to
the Lord within, the Lord of a forest dweller (like her), and she said,
“Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

dhyeyaḥ sadā yogibhir aprameyaḥ
cintā-haraś cintita-pārijātaḥ
kastūrikā-kalpita-nīla-varṇo
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

He is always meditated upon by the yogīs as being inscrutable. He is the
remover of all anxieties, and is the desire-tree of all that is desireable.
His bluish complexion is as attractive as Kastūrikā. Govinda! Dāmodara!
Mādhava!

saṁsāre-kūpe patito ‘tyagādhe
mohāndha-pūrṇe viṣayābhitapte
karāvalambaṁ mama dehi viṣṇo
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

I am fallen into the deep, dark well of material life, which is full of
illusion and blind ignorance, and I am tormented by sensual existence. O my
Lord, Viṣṇu, Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava, please grant me Your supporting
hand to uplift me.

tvām eva yāce mama dehi jihve
samāgate daṇḍadhare kṛtānte
vaktavyam evaṁ madhuraṁ su-bhaktyā
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

O my tongue, I ask only this of you, that at my meeting the bearer of the
sceptre of chastisement (Yamarāja), you will utter this sweet phrase with
great devotion: “Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

bhajasva mantraṁ bhava-bandha-muktyai
jihve rasajñe su-labhaṁ manojñam
dvaipāyanādyair munibhiḥ prajaptam
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

O my tongue, O knower of rasa, for release from the hellish bondage of
material existence, just worship the charming, easily obtainable mantra that
is chanted by Vedavyāsa and other sages: “Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

gopāla vaṁśīdhara rūpa-sindho
lokeśa nārāyaṇa dīna-bandho
ucca-svarais tvaṁ vada sarvadaiva
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

You should always and everywhere just loudly chant, “Gopāla, Vaṁśīdhara, O
ocean of beauty, Lord of the worlds, Nārāyāṇa, O friend of the poor,
Govinda, Dāmodara,” and “Mādhava.”

jihve sadaiva bhaja sundarāṇi
nāmāni kṛṣṇasya manoharāṇi
samasta-bhaktārti-vināśanāni
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

O my tongue, just always worship these beautiful, enchanting names of
Kṛṣṇa,”Govinda, Dāmodara,” and “Mādhava,” which destroy all the obstacles of
the devotees.

govinda govinda hare murare
govinda govinda mukunda kṛṣṇa
govinda govinda rathāṅga-pāṇe
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

“O Govinda, Govinda, Hari, Murāri! O Govinda, Govinda, Mukunda, Kṛṣṇa! O
Govinda, Govinda! O holder of the chariot wheel! O Govinda! O Dāmodara! O
Mādhava!”

sukhāvasāne tv idam eva sāraṁ
duḥkhāvasāne tv idam eva geyam
dehāvasāne tv idam eva jāpyaṁ
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

This indeed is the essence (found) upon ceasing the affairs of mundane
happiness. And this too is to be sung after the cessation of all sufferings.
This alone is to be chanted at the time of death of one’s material
body–”Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

durvāra-vākyaṁ parigṛhya kṛṣṇā
mṛgīva bhītā tu kathaṁ kathañcit
sabhāṁ praviṣṭā manasājuhāva
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

Somehow or other accepting the unavoidable command of Duḥśāsana, Draupadī,
like a frightened doe, entered the assembly of princes and within her mind
cried out to the Lord, “Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

śrī kṛṣṇa rādhāvara gokuleśa
gopāla govardhana-nātha viṣṇo
jihve pibasvāmṛtam etad eva
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

O tongue, drink only this nectar (of the names), “Śrī Kṛṣṇa, dearmost of
Śrīmatī Rādhārāṇī, Lord of Gokula, Gopāla, Lord of Govardhana, Viṣṇu,
Govinda, Dāmodara,” and “Mādhava.”

śrīnātha viśveśvara viśva-mūrte
śrī devakī-nandana daitya-śatro
jihve pibasvāmṛtam etad eva
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

“Śrīnātha, Lord of the universe, form of the universe, beautiful son of
Devakī, O enemy of the demons, Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!” O my tongue,
just drink this nectar.

gopīpate kaṁsa-ripo mukunda
lakṣmīpate keśava vāsudeva
jihve pibasvāmṛtam etad eva
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

“Lord of the gopīs, enemy of Kaṁsa, Mukunda, husband of Lakṣmīdevī, Keśava,
son of Vasudeva, Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!” O my tongue, just drink this
nectar.

gopī-janāhlāda-kara vrajeśa
go-cāraṇāraṇya-kṛta-praveśa
jihve pibasvāmṛtam etad eva
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

“O You who give bliss to the gopīs! Lord of Vraja, You who have entered the
forest for herding the cows, O Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!” O my tongue,
just drink this nectar.

prāṇeśa viśvambhara kaiṭabhāre
vaikuṇṭha nārāyaṇa cakra-pāṇe
jihve pibasvāmṛtam etad eva
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

“O Lord of my life! Upholder of the universe, foe of Kaiṭabha, Vaikuṇṭha,
Nārāyaṇa, holder of the Sudarśana-cakra! Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!” O my
tongue, just drink this nectar.

hare murāre madhusūdanādya
śrī rāma sītāvara rāvaṇāre
jihve pibasvāmṛtam etad eva
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

“O Lord Hari, enemy of Mura, Madhusūdana, Śrī Rāma, dearmost of Sītā, enemy
of Rāvaṇa, Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!” O tongue, now just drink this
nectar.

śrī yādavendrādri-dharāmbujākṣa
go-gopa-gopī-sukha-dāna-dakṣa
jihve pibasvāmṛtam etad eva
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

“O best of the Yadus, O bearer of Govardhana hill, O lotus-eyed expert in
giving happiness to the cows, the gopas, and the gopīs, Govinda, Dāmodara,
Mādhava!” O tongue, please just drink this nectar.

dharābharottāraṇa-gopa-veśa
vihāra-līlā-kṛta-bandhu-śeṣa
jihve pibasvāmṛtam etad eva
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

“O uplifter of the earth’s burdens in the guise of a cowherd boy, Lord of
sportive pastimes in which Ananta-śeṣa has become Your brother! O Govinda,
Dāmodara, Mādhava!” O my tongue, just drink this nectar.

bakī-bakāghāsura-dhenukāre
keśī-tṛṇāvarta-vighāta-dakṣa
jihve pibasvāmṛtam etad eva
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

“O enemy of Bakī (Pūtanā), Bakāsura, Aghāsura, and Dhenuka, O Lord who
expertly smashed Keśī and Tṛṇāvarta!” O tongue, just drink this
nectar–”Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

śrī jānakī-jīvana rāmacandra
niśācarāre bharatāgrajeśa
jihve pibasvāmṛtam etad eva
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

“O Rāmacandra, O life and soul of the beautiful daughter of Janaka Mahārāja,
enemy of the night-roving demons, O elder brother of Bhārata!” O my tongue,
just drink this nectar–”Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

nārāyaṇānanta hare nṛsiṁha
prahlāda-bādhāhara he kṛpālo
jihve pibasvāmṛtam etad eva
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

“O Lord Nārāyaṇa, Ananta, Hari, Nṛsiṁhadeva, remover of the afflictions of
Prahlāda, O merciful Lord! Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!” O my tongue, simply
drink this nectar.

līlā-manuṣyākṛti-rāma-rūpa
pratāpa-dāsī-kṛta-sarva-bhūpa
jihve pibasvāmṛtam etad eva
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

O Lord who assumed the man-like form of Rāma, who by dint of Your prowess,
turned all other kings into Your servants! “O Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!” O
tongue, just drink this nectar.

śrī kṛṣṇa govinda hare murāre
he nātha nārāyaṇa vāsudeva
jihve pibasvāmṛtam etad eva
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

“Śrī Kṛṣṇa! Govinda! Hari! Murāri! O Lord, Nārāyaṇa, Vāsudeva!” O tongue,
please drink only this nectar–”Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

vaktuṁ samartho ‘pi na vakti kaścid
aho janānāṁ vyasanābhimukhyam
jihve pibasvāmṛtam etad eva
govinda dāmodara mādhaveti

Even though anyone is able to chant, still no one does. Alas! How determined
people are for their own undoing! O tongue, just drink the nectar of these
names–”Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

iti śrī bilvamaṅgalācārya-viracitaṁ
śrī govinda-dāmodara-stotraṁ saṁpūrṇam
