Before the assembled Kurus and pandavas, when Duḥśāsana caught her hair and clothing, Kṛṣṇā (Draupadī), 
having no other Lord, cried out, 
”Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

O Lord Kṛṣṇa, Viṣṇu, enemy of the Madhu and Kaiṭabha demons; O Supreme
Personality of Godhead, enemy of Mura, merciful upon the devotees; O Keśava,
Lord of the worlds, 
Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava, please deliver me.

Though desiring to sell milk, dahī, butter, etc., the mind of a young gopī
was so absorbed in the lotus feet of Kṛṣṇa that instead of calling out “Milk
for sale,” she bewilderedly said, “Govinda!”, Dāmodara!”, and “Mādhava!”

Their grinding-mortars full of grains, the gopīs minds are overcome as they
thresh with their pestles, singing “Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

A lotus-eyed girl instructed the red-beaked pet parrot that was seated in
the cup of her lotus hand; she said, “Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava . . .”

In each and every house, a bevy of gopa-women is engaged in making the caged
parrots constantly utter with broken words, “Govinda,” “Dāmodara,” and
Mādhava.”

With the little boy lying in the swing, all of the gopīs used to expertly
sing compositions set to musical notes and rhythm; they went, “Govinda,
Dāmodara, Mādhava,” while putting Him to rest.

The younger brother of Balarāma, playing mischieviously, was dodging about
her with restless eyes. Taking a ball of fresh butter to lure Him over, a
gopī called Him: “O Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava . . .”

O my tongue, since my mouth has become like a lotus by dint of the presence
there of these eloquent, ornamental, delightful syllables, you are like the
swan that plays there. As your foremost pleasure, always articulate the
names, “Govinda,” “Dāmodara,” and “Mādhava.”

The one and only Lord of Lakṣmīdevī, as an inconspicuous little cowherd
baby, was seated in the lap of mother Yaśodā, drinking her breast-milk.
Merged in bliss, she addressed Him as “Govinda,” “Dāmodara,” and “Mādhava.”

In Vraja-dhāma, Kṛṣṇa was playing with His playmates, the boys of His age
who protected the animals. With great love, mother Yaśodā called out to her
own son, “O Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

Being firmly tied up to the grinding mortar with a cow’s rope by mother
Yaśodā, the plunderer of butter softly whimpered. “Govinda, Dāmodara,
Mādhava.”

In His own courtyard, Kṛsṇa was carelessly playing with a bracelet. So the
gopī took a ball of butter to Him, and shutting His eyes with her palm, she
distracted Him, “O Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava . . .(Guess what I have for
you!)”

In house after house, groups of cowherd ladies gather on various occasions,
and together they always chant the transcendental names of Kṛṣṇa–”Govinda,
Dāmodara, and Mādhava.”

His face is pleasing, and the flute at His lips is filled with Divine sound.
Amidst the cows, gopas, and gopīs, He stands at the base of a coral tree.
Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!

Having risen early in the Brahma-muhūrta, and remembering the childish
activities of the Son of mother Yaśodā, the gopīs loudly sing while churning
butter–”Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

Having churned and then set aside a fresh lump of butter in the house,
mother Yaśodā was now suspicious–it had been eaten. She said, “Hey–Murāri!
Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava, now tell me the truth . . .”

Having finished worship at home, a young gopī, (like) a strong current of
love for Kṛṣṇa, churned the butter, and then joins together with all the
gopīs and their friends and they sing, “Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

One time, early in the morning, just as a girl had put aside her churn in a
pot full of butter–she saw Mukunda. She then began to sing songs in various
ways, about Govinda, Dāmodara, and Mādhava.

(Without having even bathed or eaten,) Kṛṣṇa was absorbed in play.
Overwhelmed with affection, mother Yaśodā, who thought only of her son’s
welfare, called out, “Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava! (Come, take your bath and
eat something.)”

Devaṛṣi Nārada and other Munis are always surrendered to Lord Viṣṇu, who
rests upon His couch. They always chant the names of “Govinda,” “Dāmodara,”
and “Mādhava,” and thus they attain spiritual forms similar to His.

After giving up sleep at dawn, having completed their ritualistic duties,
and at the end of their Vedic chanting, the best of the learned brāhmaṇas
always loudly chant, “Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

In Vṛndāvana, seeing Śrīmatī Rādhārāṇī overwhelmed with separation from
Govinda, groups of gopas and gopīs sang, with tears in their lotus eyes,
“Govinda! Dāmodara! O Mādhava!”

The cows having already gone out to graze early in the morning, mother
Yaśodā gently roused her sleeping son with the palm of her hand, softly
saying, “Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava.”

With long, matted hair the color of coral, and bodies purified by eating
only leaves, water, and air, the sages sit beneath the trees and chant,
“Govinda,” “Dāmodara,” and “Mādhava.”

“After speaking these words, the ladies of Vraja, who were so attached to
Kṛṣṇa, felt extremely agitated by their imminent separation from Him. They
forgot all worldly shame and loudly cried out,’O Govinda! O Dāmodara! O
Mādhava!’”

Sometimes a gopī is engaged in teaching a parrot within a jewelled cage to
recite names like: “Ānanda-kanda” (source of bliss), “Vraja-candra” (moon of
Vraja), “Kṛṣṇa,” “Govinda,” “Dāmodara,” and “Mādhava.”

The lotus-eyed Lord was tying the śikhā of a cowherd boy to the tail of a
calf when His mother caught Him, lifted up His chin, and said, “Govinda!
Dāmodara! Mādhava!”

In the early morning a group of His favorite cowherd boys arrived,
stick-canes in hand, to take care of the cows. They addressed the unlimited,
primeval Personality of Godhead, “Hey, Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

When Lord Murāri jumped from the Kadamba branch into the water to chastise
the Kāliya serpent, all the gopīs and cowherd boys went there and cried out,
“Oh! Govinda! Dāmodara! Mādhava!”

After Lord Mukunda had met with Akrūra and entered Mathurā to attend the
ceremony of breaking the bow of Kaṁsa, all the citizens then shouted, “Jaya
Govinda! Jaya Dāmodara! Jaya Mādhava!”

When both sons of Vasudeva had actually been taken out of Vṛndāvana by the
messenger of Kaṁsa, Yaśodā sobbed within the house, wailing, “Govinda,
Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

Hearing how the son of Yaśodā, who was but a child, was wrapped within the
coils of the Kāliya serpent at the pond, the cowherd boys cried “Govinda!
Dāmodara! Mādhava!” and scurried down the path.

Seeing the Lord of the Yadus proceeding towards Mathurā upon Akrūra’s
chariot, the cowherd boys, upon realization of their impending separation,
said, “O Govinda! Dāmodara, Mādhava! (Where are you going? Are You actually
leaving us now?)

At the edge of a lotus forest, a gopī lay down upon the bed of flowers,
bereft of Kṛṣṇa. Tears flowed from her lotus eyes (as she wept,) “Govinda,
Dāmodara, Mādhava.”

Being very restricted by her mother and father, the lamenting gopī entered
the house, thinking, “(Now that) I have arrived home, save me, O Lord of the
universe! O Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

Thinking that Kṛṣṇa was in the forest, a gopī fled into the forest in the
middle of night. But seeing that Kṛṣṇa wasn’t actually there, she became
very fearful, and cried, “Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

Even the ordinary mortals comfortably seated at home who chant the names of
Viṣṇu, “Govinda, Dāmodara,” and “Mādhava,” certainly attain (at least) the
liberation of having a form similar to that of the Lord.

Seeing Śrīmatī Rādhārāṇi crying from the pangs of separation from Govinda,
the blooming lotus eyes of Rādhā’s girlfriend also filled with tears, and
she too cried, “Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava.”

O my tongue, you are fond of sweet things and are of discriminating taste; I
tell you the highest truth, which is also the most beneficial. Please just
recite these sweet syllables: “Govinda,” “Dāmodara,” and “Mādhava.”

The knowers of the Vedas say that this is the cure-all of the worst diseases
of mankind, and that this is the seed of the destruction of the threefold
miseries of material existence–”Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

Upon Rāmacandra’s going into the forest due to his father’s order, along
with Lakṣmaṇa and Sītā, (and thus becoming) a forest-rover, His mother
cried, “O Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

Left there alone, Sītā was carried out of the forest by the ten-headed
Rāvaṇa. At that time, accepting no other Lord, Sītā cried, “O Govinda!
Dāmodara! Mādhava!”

Separated from Rāma, the daughter of King Janaka was completely anxious, and
with the form of Rāma within her heart, she cried, “O Raghunātha! Protect
me! O Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

“O Lord Viṣṇu, be gracious! Lord of the Raghu clan, cause of the happiness
and distress of gods and demons alike, O Govinda, Dāmoadara, Mādhava!” Thus
Sītā cried, (by the time she had been carried) over the middle of the ocean.

Caught by his foot and pulled into the water, Gajendra, his friends all
harassed and frightened away, then called out incessantly, “Govinda,
Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

Along with his priest Śaṅkhayuta, King Haṁsadhvaja saw his son Sudhanvā
falling into a vat, but the boy was chanting the transcendental names of
Hari, Govinda, Dāmodara, and Mādhava.

Accepting Durvāsa Muni’s request (that she feed his thousands of disciples,
even though she hadn’t the means to do this) Draupadī mentally called out to
the Lord within, the Lord of a forest dweller (like her), and she said,
“Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

He is always meditated upon by the yogīs as being inscrutable. He is the
remover of all anxieties, and is the desire-tree of all that is desireable.
His bluish complexion is as attractive as Kastūrikā. Govinda! Dāmodara!
Mādhava!

I am fallen into the deep, dark well of material life, which is full of
illusion and blind ignorance, and I am tormented by sensual existence. O my
Lord, Viṣṇu, Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava, please grant me Your supporting
hand to uplift me.

O my tongue, I ask only this of you, that at my meeting the bearer of the
sceptre of chastisement (Yamarāja), you will utter this sweet phrase with
great devotion: “Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

O my tongue, O knower of rasa, for release from the hellish bondage of
material existence, just worship the charming, easily obtainable mantra that
is chanted by Vedavyāsa and other sages: “Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

You should always and everywhere just loudly chant, “Gopāla, Vaṁśīdhara, O
ocean of beauty, Lord of the worlds, Nārāyāṇa, O friend of the poor,
Govinda, Dāmodara,” and “Mādhava.”

O my tongue, just always worship these beautiful, enchanting names of
Kṛṣṇa,”Govinda, Dāmodara,” and “Mādhava,” which destroy all the obstacles of
the devotees.

“O Govinda, Govinda, Hari, Murāri! O Govinda, Govinda, Mukunda, Kṛṣṇa! O
Govinda, Govinda! O holder of the chariot wheel! O Govinda! O Dāmodara! O
Mādhava!”

This indeed is the essence (found) upon ceasing the affairs of mundane
happiness. And this too is to be sung after the cessation of all sufferings.
This alone is to be chanted at the time of death of one’s material
body–”Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

Somehow or other accepting the unavoidable command of Duḥśāsana, Draupadī,
like a frightened doe, entered the assembly of princes and within her mind
cried out to the Lord, “Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

O tongue, drink only this nectar (of the names), “Śrī Kṛṣṇa, dearmost of
Śrīmatī Rādhārāṇī, Lord of Gokula, Gopāla, Lord of Govardhana, Viṣṇu,
Govinda, Dāmodara,” and “Mādhava.”

“Śrīnātha, Lord of the universe, form of the universe, beautiful son of
Devakī, O enemy of the demons, Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!” O my tongue,
just drink this nectar.

“Lord of the gopīs, enemy of Kaṁsa, Mukunda, husband of Lakṣmīdevī, Keśava,
son of Vasudeva, Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!” O my tongue, just drink this
nectar.

“O You who give bliss to the gopīs! Lord of Vraja, You who have entered the
forest for herding the cows, O Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!” O my tongue,
just drink this nectar.

“O Lord of my life! Upholder of the universe, foe of Kaiṭabha, Vaikuṇṭha,
Nārāyaṇa, holder of the Sudarśana-cakra! Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!” O my
tongue, just drink this nectar.

“O Lord Hari, enemy of Mura, Madhusūdana, Śrī Rāma, dearmost of Sītā, enemy
of Rāvaṇa, Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!” O tongue, now just drink this
nectar.

“O best of the Yadus, O bearer of Govardhana hill, O lotus-eyed expert in
giving happiness to the cows, the gopas, and the gopīs, Govinda, Dāmodara,
Mādhava!” O tongue, please just drink this nectar.

“O uplifter of the earth’s burdens in the guise of a cowherd boy, Lord of
sportive pastimes in which Ananta-śeṣa has become Your brother! O Govinda,
Dāmodara, Mādhava!” O my tongue, just drink this nectar.

“O enemy of Bakī (Pūtanā), Bakāsura, Aghāsura, and Dhenuka, O Lord who
expertly smashed Keśī and Tṛṇāvarta!” O tongue, just drink this
nectar–”Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

“O Rāmacandra, O life and soul of the beautiful daughter of Janaka Mahārāja,
enemy of the night-roving demons, O elder brother of Bhārata!” O my tongue,
just drink this nectar–”Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

“O Lord Nārāyaṇa, Ananta, Hari, Nṛsiṁhadeva, remover of the afflictions of
Prahlāda, O merciful Lord! Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!” O my tongue, simply
drink this nectar.

O Lord who assumed the man-like form of Rāma, who by dint of Your prowess,
turned all other kings into Your servants! “O Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!” O
tongue, just drink this nectar.

“Śrī Kṛṣṇa! Govinda! Hari! Murāri! O Lord, Nārāyaṇa, Vāsudeva!” O tongue,
please drink only this nectar–”Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

Even though anyone is able to chant, still no one does. Alas! How determined
people are for their own undoing! O tongue, just drink the nectar of these
names–”Govinda, Dāmodara, Mādhava!”

Thus the Śrī Govinda Dāmodara Stotram composed by Śrī Bilvamaṅgalācārya is
completed.
