narasimha-kavacham vakshye
prahladenoditam pura
sarva-raksha-karam punyam
sarvopadrava-nashanam

I shall now recite the Narasimha-kavaca, formerly spoken by Prahlada Maharaja. It is most pious, vanquishes all kinds of impediments, and provides one all protection.

sarva-sampat-karam chaiva
svarga-moksha-pradayakam
dhyatva narasimham devesham
hema-simhasana-sthitam

It bestows upon one all opulences and can give one elevation to the heavenly planets or liberation. One should meditate on Lord Narasimha, Lord of the universe, seated upon a golden throne.

vivrtasyam tri-nayanam
sharad-indu-sama-prabham
lakshmyalingita-vamangam
vibhutibhir upashritam

His mouth is wide open, He has three eyes, and He is as radiant as the autumn moon. He is embraced by Lakshmidevi on his left side, and His form is the shelter of all opulences, both material and spiritual.

catur-bhujam komalangam
svarna-kundala-shobhitam
saroja-shobitoraskam
ratna-keyura-mudritam

The Lord has four arms, and His limbs are very soft. He is decorated with golden earrings. His chest is resplendent like the lotus flower, and His arms are decorated with jewel-studded ornaments.

tapta-kancana-sankasham
pita-nirmala-vasasam
indradi-sura-maulishthah
sphuran manikya-diptibhih

He is dressed in a spotless yellow garment, which exactly resembles molten gold. He is the original cause of existence, beyond the mundane sphere, for the great demigods headed by Indra. He appears bedecked with rubies which are blazingly effulgent.

virajita-pada-dvandvam
shankha-chakradi-hetibhih
garutmata cha vinayat
stuyamanam mudanvitam

His two feet are very attractive, and He is armed with various weapons such as the conch, disc, etc. Garuda joyfully offers prayers with great reverence.

sva-hrt-kamala-samvasam
krtva tu kavacham pathet
nrsimho me shirah patu
loka-rakshartha-sambhavah

Having seated Lord Narasimhadeva upon the lotus of one``s heart, one should recite the following mantra: May Lord Narasimha, who protects all the planetary systems, protect my head.

sarvago ’pi stambha-vasah
phalam me rakshatu dhvanim
nrsimho me drshau patu
soma-suryagni-lochanah

Although the Lord is all-pervading, He hid Himself within a pillar. May He protect my speech and the results of my activities. May Lord Narasimha, whose eyes are the sun, and fire, protect my eyes.

smrtam me patu naraharih
muni-varya-stuti-priyah
nasam me simha-nashas tu
mukham lakshmi-mukha-priyah

May Lord Nrhari, who is pleased by the prayers offered by the best of sages, protect my memory. May He who has the nose of a lion protect my nose, and may He whose face is very dear to the goddess of fortune protect my mouth.

sarva-vidyadhipah patu
nrsimho rasanam mama
vaktram patv indu-vadanam
sada prahlada-vanditah

May Lord Narasimha, who is the knower of all sciences, protect my sense of taste. May He whose face is beautiful as the full moon and who is offered prayers by Prahlada Maharaja protect my face.

narasimhah patu me kantham
skandhau bhu-bhrd ananta-krt
divyastra-shobhita-bhujah
narasimhah patu me bhujau

May Lord Narasimha protect my throat. He is the sustainer of the earth and the performer of unlimitedly wonderful activities. May He protect my shoulders. His arms are resplendent with transcendental weapons. May He protect my shoulders.

karau me deva-varado
narasimhah patu sarvatah
hrdayam yogi-sadhyash cha
nivasam patu me harih

May the Lord, who bestows benedictions upon the demigods, protect my hands, and may He protect me from all sides. May He who is achieved by the perfect yogis protect my heart, and may Lord Hari protect my dwelling place.

madhyam patu hiranyaksha-
vakshah-kukshi-vidaranah
nabhim me patu naraharih
sva-nabhi-brahma-samstutah

May He who ripped apart the chest and abdomen of the great demon Hiranyaksha protect my waist, and may Lord Nrhari protect my navel. He is offered prayers by Lord Brahma, who has sprung from his own navel.

brahmanda-kotayah katyam
yasyasau patu me katim
guhyam me patu guhyanam
mantranam guhya-rupa-drk

May He on whose hips rest all the universes protect my hips. May the Lord protect my private parts. He is the knower of all mantras and all mysteries, but He Himself is not visible.

uru manobhavah patu
januni nara-rupa-drk
janghe patu dhara-bhara-
harta yo ’sau nr-keshari

May He who is the original Cupid protect my thighs. May He who exhibits a human-like form protect my knees. May the remover of the burden of the earth, who appears in a form which is half-man and half-lion, protect my calves.

sura-rajya-pradah patu
padau me nrharishvarah
sahasra-shirsha-purushah
patu me sarvashas tanum

May the bestower of heavenly opulence protect my feet. He is the Supreme Controller in the form of a man and lion combined. May the thousand-headed Supreme enjoyer protect my body from all sides and in all respects.

manograh purvatah patu
maha-viragrajo ’gnitah
maha-vishnur dakshine tu
maha-jvalas tu nairrtah

May that most ferocious personality protect me from the east. May He who is superior to the greatest heroes protect me from the southeast, which is presided over by Agni. May the Supreme Vishnu protect me from the south, and may that person of blazing luster protect me from the southwest.

pashchime patu sarvesho
dishi me sarvatomukhah
narasimhah patu vayavyam
saumyam bhushana-vigrahah

May the Lord of everything protect me from the west. His faces are everywhere, so please may He protect me from this direction. May Lord Narasimha protect me from the northwest, which is predominated by Vayu, and may He whose form is in itself the supreme ornament protect me from the north, where Soma resides.

ishanyam patu bhadro me
sarva-mangala-dayakah
samsara-bhayatah patu
mrtyor mrtyur nr-keshari

May the all-auspicious Lord, who Himself bestows all-auspiciousness, protect from the northeast, the direction of the sun-god, and may He who is death personified protect me from fear of death and rotation in this material world.

idam narasimha-kavacham
prahlada-mukha-manditam
bhaktiman yah pathenaityam
sarva-papaih pramucyate

This Narasimha-kavaca has been ornamented by issuing from the mouth of Prahlada Maharaja. A devotee who reads this becomes freed from all sins.

putravan dhanavan loke
dirghayur upajayate
yam yam kamayate kamam
tam tam prapnoty asamshayam

Whatever one desires in this world he can attain without doubt. One can have wealth, many sons, and a long life.

sarvatra jayam apnoti
sarvatra vijayi bhavet
bhumy antariksha-divyanam
grahanam vinivaranam

He becomes victorious who desires victory, and indeed becomes a conqueror. He wards off the influence of all planets, earthly, heavenly, and everything in between.

vrshchikoraga-sambhuta-
vishapaharanam param
brahma-rakshasa-yakshanam
durotsarana-karanam

This is the supreme remedy for the poisonous effects of serpents and scorpions, and Brahma-rakshasa ghosts and Yakshas are driven away.

bhuje va tala-patre va
kavacam likhitam shubham
kara-mule dhrtam yena
sidhyeyuh karma-siddhayah

One may write this most auspicious prayer on his arm, or inscribe it on a palm-leaf and attach it to his wrist, and all his activities will become perfect.

devasura-manushyeshu
svam svam eva jayam labhet
eka-sandhyam tri-sandhyam va
yah pathen niyato narah

One who regularly chants this prayer, whether once or thrice (daily), he becomes victorious whether among demigods, demons, or human beings.

sarva-mangala-mangalyam
bhuktim muktim cha vindati
dva-trimshati-sahasrani
pathet shuddhatmanam nrnam

One who with purified heart recites this prayer 32,000 times attains the most auspicious of all auspicious things, and material enjoyment and liberation are already understood to be available to such a person.

kavachasyasya mantrasya
mantra-siddhih prajayate
anena mantra-rajena
krtva bhasmabhir mantranam

This Kavaca-mantra is the king of all mantras. One attains by it what would be attained by anointing oneself with ashes and chanting all other mantras.

tilakam bibhriyad yas tu
tasya graha-bhayam haret
tri-varam japamanas tu
dattam varyabhimantrya ca

Having marked ones body with tilaka, taking acamana with water, and reciting this mantra three times, one will find that the fear of all inauspicious planets is removed.

prasayed yo naro mantram
narasimha-dhyanam acharet
tasya rogah pranashyanti
ye cha syuh kukshi-sambhavah

That person who recites this mantra, meditating upon Lord Narasimhadeva, has all of his diseases vanquished, including those of the abdomen.

kimatra bahunoktena
narasimha sadrsho bhavet
manasa chintitam yattu 
sa tacchapnotya samshayam

Why should more be said? One acquires qualitative oneness with Narasimha himself. There is no doubt that the desires in the mind of one who meditates will be granted.

garjantam garjayantam nija-bhuja-patalam sphotayantam hatantam
dipyantam tapayantam divi bhuvi ditijam kshepayantam kshipantam
krandantam roshayantam dishi dishi satatam samharantam bharantam
vikshantam purnayantam kara-nikara-shatair divya-simham namami

Lord Narasimha roars loudly and causes others to roar. With His multitudes of arms He tears the demons asunder and kills them in this way. He is always seeking out and tormenting the demoniac descendants of Diti, both on this earth planet and in the higher planets, and He throws them down and scatters them. He cries with great anger as He destroys the demons in all directions, yet with His unlimited hands He sustains, protects, and nourishes the cosmic manifestation. I offer my respectful obeisances to the Lord, who has assumed the form of a transcendental lion.

iti shri-brahmanda-purane prahladoktam shri-narasimha-kavacam sampurnam

Thus ends the Narasimha-kavaca as it is described by Prahlada Maharaja in the Brahmanda Purana.

