1) All glories to Radha and Krsna and the divine forest of Vrndavana. All glories to the three presiding Deities of Vrndavana--Sri Govinda, Gopinatha, and Madana-mohana.

2) All glories to Syama-kunda, Radha-kunda, Govardhana Hill, and the Yamuna River (Kalindi). All glories to the great forest known as Mahavana, where Krsna and Balarama displayed all of Their childhood pastimes.

3) All glories to Kesi-ghata, where Krsna killed the Kesi demon. All glories to the Vamsi-vata tree, where Krsna attracted all the gopis to come by playing His flute. Glories to all of the twelve forests of Vraja. At these places the son of Nanda, Sri Krsna, performed all of His pastimes.

4) All glories to Krsna's divine father and mother Nanda and Yasoda. All glories to the cowherd boys, headed by Sridama, the older brother of Srimati Radharani and Ananga Manjari. All glories to the cows and calves of Vraja.

5) All glories to Radha's divine father and mother, Vrsabhanu and the beautiful Kirtida. All glories to Paurnamasi, the mother of Sandipani Muni, grandmother of Madhumangala and Nandimukhi, and beloved disciple of Devarsi Narada. All glories lo the young cowherd maidens of Vraja.

6) All glories, all glories to Gopisvara Siva, who resides in Vrndavana in order to protect the holy dhama. All glories, all glories to Krsna's funny Brahmana friend, Madhumangala.

7) All glories to Rama-ghata, where Lord Balarama performed His rasa dance. All glories to Lord Balarama, the son of Rohini. All glories, all glories to all of the residents of Vrndavana.

8) All glories to the wives of the proud Vedic brahmanas. All glories to the wives of the Kaliya serpent. Through pure devotion they all obtained the lotus feet of Lord Govinda.

9) All glories to the place where the rasa dance of Sri Krsna was performed. All glories to Radha and Syama. All glories, all glories to the divine rasa dance, which is the most beautiful of all Lord Krsna's pastimes.

1All glories, all glories to the mellow of conjugal love, which is the most excellent of all rasas and is propagated in Vraja by Sri Krsna in the form of the divine parakiya-bhava [paramour love].

1Remembering the lotus feet of Lord Nityananda's consort, Sri Jahnava Devi, this very fallen and lowly servant of Krsna sings the sankirtana of the holy name.
