Lord Nrsimhadeva is easily accessible to the devotees and punishes those who are evil-minded. He is the savior for those who are helpless who desire to seek refuge in Him. When the demigods of innumerable planets bow down to His lotus feet, the bright jewels from their crowns are reflected on His toenails which gives the impression that lamps are being waved in front of them. Unto these lotus feet, Sanideva (the personification of the planet, Saturn) prostrated and prayed (in the court of Brahma).

Sani-deva said: By the mercy of the dust of Your lotus feet which destroy a multitude of sins, grant infinite auspiciousness to Your devotee who always worships Your lotus feet with devotion. O Lord Nrsimha, please bestow upon me Your merciful side-long glance.

Your lotus feet are worshipped by Laksmi Devi, even though She never remains at one place. Your lotus feet are worshipped with great respect by Her, just as Lord Brahma and others who serve You worship Your lotus feet with great devotion. O Lord Nrsimha, please bestow Your merciful side-long glance upon me.

By contemplating or meditating upon Your appearance, which is expounded in the Vedas extensively, the best of the saints are liberated from the three-fold miseries and from all misfortunes. O Lord Nrsimha, please bestow upon me Your merciful side-long glance.

By the word of His devotee named Prahlada, Lord Hari, who is generous and kind, appeared from a pillar and by placing Hiranyakasipu on His thighs split open the his stomach with His nails. O Lord Nrsimha, please bestow upon me Your merciful side-long glance.

You protected your own devotee Prahlada from a raging fire, the deep ocean, from falling from a tall mountain peak, poison, a mad elephant and the fangs of poisonous serpents. You are omnipresent and supremely generous. O Lord Nrsimha, please bestow upon me Your merciful side-long glance.

By meditating upon He whose great form is devoid of imperfections, the best of the saints attained liberation from the ocean of materialistic attachments and obtained unmitigated salvation. O Lord Nrsimha, please bestow upon me Your merciful side-long glance.

By meditating upon He whose form is fearsome, all peace, happiness and prosperity can be obtained, all sins can be obliterated, the fear arising from evil spirits, fevers and unfavorable planetary positions can be removed, O Lord Nrsimha, please bestow upon me Your merciful side-long glance.

Your transcendental fame is sung gloriously in all the divine assemblies of Shiva, Brahma and Indra, and other demigods. Your power is steadfast in wiping out all impurities, O Lord Nrsimha, please bestow upon me Your merciful side-long glance.

On listening to the heartfelt prayer composed by Sanideva in the assembly of Lord Brahma, Lord Hari who is ever compassionate to His devotees, spoke to Sanideva as follows.

Lord Nrsimhadeva said, “O Sani, I am pleased with your devotion. Whatever you desire that will benefit the world, ask for that kind of boon and I will grant it.”

Shri Sanideva replied, “O Lord Nrsimhadeva, O reservoir of compassion, please be kind to me. O Lord of all gods, let my week-day (Saturday) be Your favorite day. O Purifier of all the worlds, may You fulfill the desires of all those who listen to or read this great prayer to You composed by me."

Shri Sanideva replied, “O Lord Nrsimhadeva, O reservoir of compassion, please be kind to me. O Lord of all gods, let my week-day (Saturday) be Your favorite day. O Purifier of all the worlds, may You fulfill the desires of all those who listen to or read this great prayer to You composed by me."

Then, Lord Nrsimhadeva said, “O Sani! Let it be so! By virtue of My being the universal protector, I fulfill the desires of all My devotees. Please listen to My words! Let there be no fear of the twelfth and eighth birth positions (and implicitly any unfavorable birth positions) and consequent troubles from you for anyone who reads or listens to this prayer to Me composed by you.

Then Sanideva replied to Lord Narahari that he would follow the Lord's instructions. Then the joyful saints and sages present there (in Brahma's assembly) responded with cries of “jaya! jaya!”

Sri Krsna told Dharma-raja (Yamaraja), "Whoever listens to or recites this conversation between Sanideva and Lord Nrsimhadeva in the form of this prayer of devotion will definitely have all desires fulfilled and will always rejoice."
